BIP 181, 182, 183: BIPs for Utreexo (#1923)
bitcoin/bips: bip-0183.md

```
  BIP: 183
  Layer: Peer Services
  Title: Utreexo - Peer Services
  Author: Tadge Dryja <rx@awsomnet.org>
          Calvin Kim <bip@calvinkim.info>
          Davidson Souza <bip@dlsouza.dev>
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/wiki/Comments:BIP-0183
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2024-08-08
  License: BSD-3-Clause

>   Requires: 181, 182

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  BIP: 183
  Layer: Peer Services
  Title: Utreexo - Peer Services
  Authors: Tadge Dryja <rx@awsomnet.org>
           Calvin Kim <bip@calvinkim.info>
           Davidson Souza <bip@dlsouza.dev>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Specification
  Assigned: 2025-08-29
  License: BSD-3-Clause
  Requires: 181, 182
```

```

## Abstract

> Utreexo creates a compact representation of the UTXO set that only takes a couple of kilobytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Utreexo creates a compact representation of the UTXO set that only takes up a couple of kilobytes.
```

Archive and bridge nodes store more data and provide this data to CSNs.

Bridge nodes are nodes that can add inclusion proofs to mempool transactions, support the same set of messages as CSNs, and should in fact be indistinguishable from CSNs on the network.
Archive nodes are able to serve the blocks and the inclusion proofs. However, they are not able to generate the inclusion proofs as they do not keep the full UTXO set.

Note that the archive and bridge capabilities of a node are separate; a bridge node can be bridge only, without previous block proof data, and an archive node doesn't need to be able to bridge.

The one exception to this flexibility is that archive nodes must provide both the blocks and the inclusion proofs.
While theoretically possible to split these two resources, the blocks are quite small relative to the block proofs, and it simplifies clients to be able to rely on being able to request both over the same connection.

### Pre-P2P: Bridge Building

When introducing Utreexo into an existing network, there are two things needed before CSNs can operate.
First, archive nodes need to build proofs for old blocks to serve during the initial block download (IBD).

> Second, nodes need to build and maintain the UTXO merkle forest, and an index of outpoints to leaves of that forest, so that they can build proofs for new transactions.

Reviewer 2: For some reason, "Merkle" is consistently capitalized in 181 and 182 but consistently lowercase in 183.

> Both of these processes happen without any p2p messages by taking an already existing, synchronized archive full node and going through its stored block data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both of these processes happen without any P2P messages by taking an already existing, synchronized archive full node and going through its stored block data.
```

> Once an archive and bridge node have been established, CSNs download blocks and inclusion proofs to IBD and maintain sync with the bitcoin network. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once an archive and bridge node have been established, CSNs download blocks and inclusion proofs to IBD and maintain sync with the Bitcoin network. 
```

### Transaction relay

Non-Utreexo transaction relay is done by sending an inv message with the hash of the transaction and a type field that denotes that this hash represents a transaction.
If the node receiving the inv does not have a transaction matching that hash, the node then requests the transaction using a getdata message.

Below image illustrates how a non-Utreexo node would relay transactions.

![Non-Utreexo TX relay](bip-0183/non-utreexo-tx-relay.png)

The transaction relay for Utreexo nodes doesn't add any extra round trips.
However, it does include extra inventory vectors in the inv message.

We introduce a new inventory vector type called `utreexoproofhash`, which makes up the extra information that a Utreexo node will receive.

A hash with the type `utreexoproofhash` represents four Utreexo merkle tree positions, each of them little-endian serialized and taking up 8 bytes in the 32-byte hash.
When sending an inv message to a Utreexo node for a transaction, we append `utreexoproofhash` inventory vectors to represent the merkle tree positions for each of the UTXOs being referenced in the inputs of the transaction.

> The Utreexo merkle tree positions are explained in detail in [Utreexo Accumulator Specification](bip-0181#Merkle Forest).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Utreexo merkle tree positions are explained in detail in [Utreexo Accumulator Specification](bip-0181.md#merkle-forest).
```

![Utreexo TX relay with multiple txs](bip-0183/utreexo-tx-relay-with-multiple-txs.png)

### Block Propagation

Legacy block propagation without Compact Blocks comprises of three steps:

1. Node A sends an inv message or a block header to Node B.
2. Node B makes a getdata request for the block.
3. Node A sends the block data to Node B.

Below image illustrates how a non-Utreexo node would relay blocks without using Compact Blocks.

![Non-Compact-Block Block Propagation](bip-0183/non-compact-block-block-propagation.png)

The same block propagation with Utreexo nodes will look like so:

1. Node A sends an inv message or a block header to Node B.
2. Node B makes a getdata request for the block.
3. Node B makes a getutreexoproof request for the block.
4. Node A sends the block data to Node B.
5. Node A sends the inclusion proof to Node B.

Note that while Node A sent the inv or the blockhash to Node B, Node B is free to ask for the Utreexo proof from a node other than Node A.
This allows a Utreexo node to be notified of new blocks from non-Utreexo nodes.

Since there's no PoW required for the inclusion proof, the block may be valid and the proof may be invalid.

> If the block header validation passed while the full block validation fails, Node B should request the inclusion proof from a different peer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the block header validation passes while the full block validation fails, Node B should request the inclusion proof from a different peer.
```

Should the proof and the block pass validation, we can conclude that Node A is malicious and ban the peer.

All of the above propagation works the same with Compact Block propagation as well.
The requester would need to send a getdata request (MSG_UTREEXO_SUMMARY) after the Compact Block propagation has concluded for high-bandwidth Compact Block propagation and after the header/inv message was received from the broadcasting peer.

Below image illustrates how a Utreexo node would relay blocks in a bandwidth efficient manner without using Compact Blocks.

![Bandwidth Saving Non-Compact-Block Block Propagation with Utreexo Nodes](bip-0183/bandwidth-saving-non-compact-block-utreexo-block-propagation.png)

## Specification

Several new data structures and messages are introduced to make the IBD and tx relay possible.
All structures are little-endian encoded unless otherwise noted.

### New data structures

#### Compact leaf data

For a CSN to learn the data associated with a UTXO, it must ask for it from a peer that has it.
To authenticate this data, it is committed into the accumulator, and therefore cannot be changed by the peer.

> The committed data is defined in [Utreexo - Transaction and block validation](bip-0182#UTXO Hash Preimages), but for some information in the leaf data, the receiving peer might already have it, so sending it again is a waste of bandwidth.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The committed data is defined in [Utreexo - Transaction and block validation](bip-0182.md#utxo-hash-preimages), but for some information in the leaf data, the receiving peer might already have it, so sending it again is a waste of bandwidth.
```

A Reconstructable Script is a tagged union that lets nodes recreate the script without necessarily providing redundant information.
If we can reconstruct the committed hash from the transaction data, we just say which type should we expect.
Only if the actual script cannot be reconstructed from transaction data, like in the case of taproot outputs, we send the actual script.

The serialization and tag values are given below:

| Field   | Type                    | Description       | Required                 |
|---------|-------------------------|-------------------|--------------------------|
| tag     | 1-byte unsigned integer | Script type       | yes                      |
| length  | varint                  | The script length | only if tag type is 0x00 |
| script  | variable-length vector  | The actual script | only if tag type is 0x00 |

The possible values for the tag are:

| Value | Script Type         |
|-------|---------------------|
| 0x00  | Other               |
| 0x01  | Pubkey Hash         |
| 0x02  | WitnessV0PubkeyHash |
| 0x03  | ScriptHash          |
| 0x04  | WitnessV0ScriptHash |

#### TTL Info

> For all UTXOs that get added to the Utreexo merkle forest, a TTL info exists for it and includes information necessary for efficiently caching and requesting proofs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For any UTXO that gets added to the Utreexo Merkle forest exists a corresponding TTL Info. It includes the necessary information for efficiently caching and requesting proofs.
```

The TTL value provides information to determine which leaves should be cached and the death position is used to calculate which positions in the merkle forest we need to prove a block.

| Field          | Type   | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
|----------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | TTL            | varint | The time-to-live value of a leaf in the Utreexo merkle forest. The value is determined by the amount of leaves that were added to the accumulator since its creation |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TTL            | varint | The time-to-live value of a leaf in the Utreexo Merkle forest. The value is determined by the amount of leaves that were added to the accumulator since its creation |
```

> | death position | varint | The position in the Utreexo merkle forest when the leaf was removed                                                                                                  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| death position | varint | The position of the leaf in the Utreexo Merkle forest at the moment it was removed                                                                                                  |
```

#### Utreexo TTL

> 

Reviewer 3: Missing a description here.

| Field        | Type                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|--------------|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | block height | uint32              | The time-to-live value of a leaf in the Utreexo merkle forest. The value is determined by the amount of leaves that were added to the accumulator since its creation                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: Wrong description.

> | length       | varint              | The length of the TTLs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| length       | varint              | The length of the TTLInfo vector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
```

| TTLs         | vector of TTL infos | The TTL Info for the UTXOs that are added to the Utreexo merkle forest in blockchain ordering. See [BIP-0182](bip-0182.md#excluded-utxos-from-the-accumulator) for the UTXOs that are not added to the Utreexo merkle forest |

### New Messages

#### MSG_UTREEXO_PROOF

`MSG_UTREEXO_PROOF` is all the data required for a CSN or archive node using the Utreexo accumulators to validate a Bitcoin block.

Its `cmdString` for P2PV1 is `uproof`.

> Its [BIP324 P2PV2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0324.mediawiki#user-content-v2_Bitcoin_P2P_message_structure) message type is `29`.

Reviewer 4: I think these values should be reserved in bip 324 before being added to other bips, to help avoid conflicts. (At worst, perhaps bip-324 could be updated in this PR)

| proof hashes                   | vector of 32 byte vectors    | The hashes requested by MSG_GET_UTREEXO_PROOF. MUST be in tree order                                                                       |
| length of the target locations | varint                       | The length of the target locations                                                                                                         |
| target locations               | vector of varint values      | The Utreexo merkle tree locations of the leafdatas. MUST be in blockchain order. MUST include all the locations or none of the locations   |
| length of the leafdatas        | varint                       | The length of the leafdatas                                                                                                                |
| leafdatas                      | vector of compact leafdatas  | The preimage of the committed UTXOs requested by the MSG_GET_UTREEXO_PROOF. MUST be in blockchain order. See compact leaf data for details |

The proof hashes MUST be in merkle forest tree ordering.

> See BIP [Utreexo Accumulator Specification](bip-0181.md#Merkle Forest) for an explanation on how each of the hashes in the merkle forest are positioned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See BIP [Utreexo Accumulator Specification](bip-0181.md#merkle-forest) for an explanation on how each of the hashes in the merkle forest are positioned.
```

Each of the target location represents the position of the leaf data at the same index.

> While each leaf data represent a UTXO in a given block, not all are added as per [Utreexo - Validation Layer](bip-0182.md#Excluded UTXOs from the accumulator).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While each leaf data represent a UTXO in a given block, not all are added as per [Utreexo - Validation Layer](bip-0182.md#excluded-utxos-from-the-accumulator).
```

#### MSG_GET_UTREEXO_PROOF

`MSG_GET_UTREEXO_PROOF` is a message to request the inclusion proof for a given block.

Its `cmdString` for P2PV1 is `getuproof`.
Its [BIP324 P2PV2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0324.mediawiki#user-content-v2_Bitcoin_P2P_message_structure) message type is `30`.

| Field                     | Type                        | Description                                                        |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | blockhash                 | 32 byte vector              | The hash of the bitcoin block that we want the inclusion proof for |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| blockhash                 | 32 byte vector              | The hash of the Bitcoin block that we want the inclusion proof for |
```

#### MSG_GET_UTREEXO_TTLS

`MSG_GET_UTREEXO_TTLS` is used to request a MSG_UTREEXO_TTLS message.

Its `cmdString` for P2PV1 is `getuttls`.
Its [BIP324 P2PV2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0324.mediawiki#user-content-v2_Bitcoin_P2P_message_structure) message type is `32`.

| Field                | Type   | Description                                                                                                          |
|----------------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Version              | uint32 | The height of the committed TTL accumulator. It's used to specify which accumulator the TTL should be proved against |
| Start height         | uint32 | The first block which the TTL message will be provided for                                                           |
| Max receive exponent | uint8  | Denotes how many TTLs should be provided in total. The provided TTL count will be $2^{Max Receive Exponent}$         |

#### MSG_UTREEXO_SUMMARY

> `MSG_UTREEXO_SUMMARY` is the data needed to calculate the missing merkle forest positions required to validate a given block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`MSG_UTREEXO_SUMMARY` is the data needed to calculate the missing Merkle forest positions required to validate a given block.
```

Its `cmdString` for P2PV1 is `usummary`.
Its [BIP324 P2PV2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0324.mediawiki#user-content-v2_Bitcoin_P2P_message_structure) message type is `33`.

| Field                      | Type                    | Description                                                                                                     |
|----------------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| blockhash                  | 32 byte vector          | The hash of the block that this Utreexo block summary is for                                                    |
| num adds                   | varint                  | The count of leaves added to the accumulator on the block this Utreexo block summary is for                     |
| length of target locations | varint                  | The length of the target locations                                                                              |

> | target locations           | vector of uint64 values | The Utreexo merkle tree locations of the leafdatas. MUST be in blockchain order. MUST include all the locations |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| target locations           | vector of uint64 values | The Utreexo merkle tree locations of the leafdatas. MUST be in blockchain order. MUST include all locations |
```

#### MSG_UTREEXO_TX

> `MSG_UTREEXO_TX` is the non-Utreexo Bitcoin transaction appended with the inclusion proof.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`MSG_UTREEXO_TX` is the non-Utreexo Bitcoin transaction appended with its inclusion proof.
```

Its `cmdString` for P2PV1 is `utreexotx`.
Its [BIP324 P2PV2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0324.mediawiki#user-content-v2_Bitcoin_P2P_message_structure) message type is `34`.

| Field                      | Type                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | transaction                | MSG_TX                       | The bitcoin transaction. Unconfirmed inputs are marked by shifting the index by 1 and setting the LSB                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| transaction                | MSG_TX                       | The Bitcoin transaction. Unconfirmed inputs are marked by shifting the index by 1 and setting the LSB                                                                                                           |
```

> | transaction                | MSG_TX                       | The bitcoin transaction. Unconfirmed inputs are marked by shifting the index by 1 and setting the LSB                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 3: The direction of the shift should be explicit.

| length of the proof hashes | varint                       | The length of the proof hashes                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| proof hashes               | vector of 32 byte hashes     | The vector of the requested Utreexo summaries                                                                                                                                                                   |
| length of the leafdatas    | varint                       | The length of the leafdatas                                                                                                                                                                                     |

> | leafdatas                  | vector of compact leafdatas  | The preimage of the leafdatas referenced in the bitcoin transaction. MUST be in the order of the referenced inputs. Unconfirmed inputs do not have a corresponding leaf data. See compact leaf data for details |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| leafdatas                  | vector of compact leafdatas  | The preimage of the leafdatas referenced in the Bitcoin transaction. MUST be in the order of the referenced inputs. Unconfirmed inputs do not have a corresponding leaf data. See compact leaf data for details |
```

For each of the referenced inputs in the Bitcoin transaction, we mark each unconfirmed UTXO by setting the index of its outpoint:

```
index <<= 1
if IsUnconfirmed {
    index |= 1 // only set the bit if the UTXO referenced by the output is unconfirmed
}
```

This step is required because if the unconfirmed UTXO is not explicitly marked, then a malicious peer can omit the leaf data for a confirmed UTXO and mislead us into believing that the transaction is an orphan.

#### MSG_UTREEXO_ROOT

> `MSG_UTREEXO_ROOT` is the utreexo accumulator state at a given height with a proof to a utreexo accumulator of the utreexo roots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`MSG_UTREEXO_ROOT` is the Utreexo accumulator state at a given height with a proof to a Utreexo accumulator of the Utreexo roots.
```

There are also several instances of lowercase "utreexo" in the table below.

> `MSG_UTREEXO_ROOT` is the utreexo accumulator state at a given height with a proof to a utreexo accumulator of the utreexo roots.

Reviewer 3: Should be hash, as there is no height on the message, only a block hash.

```suggestion
`MSG_UTREEXO_ROOT` is the utreexo accumulator state at a given blockhash with a proof to a utreexo accumulator of the utreexo roots.
```

Its `cmdString` for P2PV1 is `uroot`.
Its [BIP324 P2PV2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0324.mediawiki#user-content-v2_Bitcoin_P2P_message_structure) message type is `35`.

| Field                      | Type                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|----------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | numleaves                  | varint                       | The number of leaves that was ever added to the accumulator at this block height. See [numleaves](bip-0181.md#Definitions)                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| numleaves                  | varint                       | The total number of leaves that were added to the accumulator until this block hash. See [numleaves](bip-0181.md#Definitions)                                                                      |
```

> | target                     | varint                       | The position of the utreexo root in the optional accumulator of the utreexo roots                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| target                     | varint                       | The position of the Utreexo root in the optional accumulator of the Utreexo roots                                                                                                                                |
```

> | blockhash                  | 32 byte vector               | The blockhash for this utreexo accumulator state                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| blockhash                  | 32 byte vector               | The blockhash for this Utreexo accumulator state                                                                                                                                                                 |
```

> | length of the root hashes  | varint                       | The length of the root hashes                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| length of the root hashes  | varint                       | The length of the root hash vector                                                                                                                                                                                  |
```

> | root hashes                | vector of 32 byte hashes     | The utreexo roots for the UTXO set at the blockhash. See [roots](bip-0181.md#Definitions)                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| root hashes                | vector of 32 byte hashes     | The Utreexo roots for the UTXO set at the blockhash. See [roots](bip-0181.md#Definitions)                                                                                                       |
```

> | length of the proof hashes | varint                       | The length of the proof hashes                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| length of the proof hashes | varint                       | The length of the proof hashes vector                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

> | proof hashes               | vector of 32 byte hashes     | The proof hashes needed to validate with the pre-committed utreexo accumulator of the utreexo roots                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| proof hashes               | vector of 32 byte hashes     | The proof hashes needed to validate with the pre-committed Utreexo accumulator of the Utreexo roots                                                                                                              |
```

> This message is for implementing an out-of-order block validation node[^2] or softchains[^3].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This message is used for implementing an out-of-order block validation node[^2] or softchains[^3].
```

> Because the size of the state needed to validate blocks is so small with Utreexo, nodes can perform IBD in parallel and out of order.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because the size of the state needed to validate blocks is so small with Utreexo, nodes can perform parallel and out of order IBD.
```

> For example, a computer could divide the task of validating 800,000 blocks into 100 tasks of 8,000 blocks each: blocks 1 through 800, 800 through 1600, 1600 through 2400, and so on.
> 
> In order start the 1600 through 2400 IBD task, however, the node should know what the state of the utxo set is at block 1600, so that it can validate and modify the accumulator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, a computer could divide the task of validating 800,000 blocks into 100 tasks of 8,000 blocks each: blocks 1 through 800, 801 through 1600, 1601 through 2400, and so on.

In order start the 1601 through 2400 IBD task, however, the node should know what the state of the UTXO set is at block 1600, so that it can validate and modify the accumulator.
```

In order to do this, the binary can provide "linkup hints", where the state of the accumulator is given for a desired block hash.

While giving the state of the system might seem at first glance to be introducing a trust assumption, these are not trusted states.
The node performing IBD tries out the state given for a block height, but checks that when that state is reached from the thread "below" that it properly links up, with the accumulator state arrived at through full validation matching the state given.
If that link up does not successfully happen, the IBD process should halt.

These hints are statements of fact that are hard-coded into the program itself, and if they are false all bets are off about the program.

> Archive nodes create a forest of Linkup hints, so that they can prove, with respect to the Linkup forest roots in a node performing IBD, what their binary has claimed the utxo accumulator state to be at any block height.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Archive nodes create a forest of Linkup hints, so that they can prove, with respect to the Linkup forest roots in a node performing IBD, what their binary has claimed the UTXO accumulator state to be at any block height.
```

> Archive nodes create a forest of Linkup hints, so that they can prove, with respect to the Linkup forest roots in a node performing IBD, what their binary has claimed the utxo accumulator state to be at any block height.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Archive nodes create a forest of "linkup hints", so that they can prove, with respect to the Linkup forest roots in a node performing IBD, what their binary has claimed the utxo accumulator state to be at any block height.
```

#### MSG_GET_UTREEXO_ROOT

> `MSG_GET_UTREEXO_ROOT` is used to request a utreexo accumulator state at a given height.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`MSG_GET_UTREEXO_ROOT` is used to request a Utreexo accumulator state at a given height.
```

Its `cmdString` for P2PV1 is `geturoot`.
Its [BIP324 P2PV2](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0324.mediawiki#user-content-v2_Bitcoin_P2P_message_structure) message type is `36`.

| Field                      | Type                    | Description                                                                                                      |
|----------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | blockhash                  | 32 byte vector          | The hash of the block that the requested utreexo root message is for                                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| blockhash                  | 32 byte vector          | The hash of the block that the requested Utreexo root message is for                                             |
```

> ### New Inventory Types

Reviewer 3: For all inventory types: be explicit about what needs to be provided and in what format (eg: blockhash, leaf positions, etc..).

#### MSG_UTREEXO_PROOF_HASH

Defined as `6`.

- It's used in the `inv` and `getdata` messages to communicate positions in the Utreexo merkle forest.
- The communicated positions MUST be in order of the referenced UTXO in the inputs.
- Unconfirmed UTXOs for the given transaction will NOT have a position associated with it.
- MUST be appended to another `invvect` of type `MSG_TX`, `MSG_WITNESS_TX`, `MSG_UTREEXO_TX`, or a `MSG_WITNESS_UTREEXO_TX`.
- Ignored if an `invvect` of type `MSG_UTREEXO_PROOF_HASH` is not pre-pended by any of the above 4 `invvect` types.

#### MSG_UTREEXO_SUMMARY

Defined as `7`.

It's used in the `getdata` messages to communicate the block hash of the desired Utreexo summary.

#### MSG_UTREEXO_FLAG

Defined as `1 << 24`.

> It can be set with `MSG_TX` and `MSG_WITNESS_TX` to indicate in `getdata` messages that a Utreexo tx is desired.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It can be set with `MSG_TX` and `MSG_WITNESS_TX` to indicate in `getdata` messages that a Utreexo transaction is desired.
```
